# LAMSTAR



The LAMSTAR program from Professor Daniel Graupe's book

PRINCIPLES OF ADVANCED NEURAL NETWORKS
2nd Edition

World Scientific

ISBN-13 978-981-270-624-9

ISBN-10 981-270-624-0

Prof Graupe writes in the book:

The neural network discussed in the present section is an artificial
neural network for large scale memory storage and retrieval of
information [Graupe and Kordylewski, 1996a,b]. This network attempts
to imitate, in a gross manner, processes of the human central nervous
system (CNS), concerning storage and retrieval of patterns,
impressions and sensed observations, including processes of forgetting
and of recall. It attempts to achieve this without contradicting
findings from physiological and psychological observations, at least
in an input/output manner. Furthermore, the LAMSTAR (LArge Memory
STorage And Retrieval) model considered attempts to do so in a
computationally efficient manner, using tools of neural networks from
the previous sections, especially SOM (Self Organizing Map)-based
network modules (similar to those of Sec. 8 above), combined with
statistical decision tools. The LAMSTAR network is therefore not a
specific network but a system of networks for storage, recognition,
comparison and decision that in combination allow such storage and
retrieval to be accomplished.

Moreover:

The LAMSTAR system can be utilized as:

— Computer-based medical diagnosis system [Kordylewski and Graupe,
2001, Nigam and Graupe, 2004, Muralidharan and Rousche, 2005]

— Tool for financial evaluations

— Tool for industrial maintenance and fault diagnosis (on same lines
as applications to medical diagnosis).

— Tool for data mining [Carino et al., 2005]

— Tool for browsing and information retrieval

— Tool for data analysis, classification, browsing, and prediction
[Sivaramakrishnan and Graupe, 2004]

— Tool for image detection and recognition [Girado et al., 2004]

— Teaching aid

— Tool for analyzing surveys and questionnaires on diverse items

